10.5.0 RN (#6836)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/releasenotes/studio-pro/10/10.5.md

---
title: "10.5"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.5/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.5 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 96
# System requirements: Java updates for 10.7, 10.10, and 10.17
# Deprecation: Import Web Service or XML Schema wizard will be removed in 10.6
# KI: "A finished parallel split branch": WOR-1623
---

## 10.5.0 {#1050} 

**Release date: November 28, 2023**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.5.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.5.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

#### XPath Builder

> We have added a new beta visual editor for writing XPath constraints. The XPath builder is an easy-to-use and intuitive tool for quickly developing the most common database constraint use cases without having to learn and write XPaths.

Reviewer: I think that it isn't a beta visual editor. It is a visual editor which happens to be beta.
Also adding a link to XPath where the documentation will be.
```suggestion
We have added a new visual editor for writing [XPath](/refguide/xpath/) constraints. The XPath builder is an easy-to-use and intuitive tool for quickly developing the most common database constraint use cases without having to learn and write XPaths. The XPath builder is currently in beta.
```

Author: Will `Builder` be capitalized in the UI @MarkvanMents ?

You can open the new visual builder by clicking **Builder (beta)** in the **XPath constraint** dialog box (and then switch back to the XPath expression editor by clicking **XPath expression**). The XPath Builder can also be made the default editor via **Edit** > **Preferences** > [New features](/refguide/preferences-dialog/#new-features).

Some advanced XPath features are not yet supported by the XPath Builder. For those cases, a message is shown stating that the XPath constraint contains advanced features and is not yet supported by the XPath Builder.

> Along with the introduction of the new visual XPath Builder, we have also taken the opportunity to unify the **Database** and **XPath** data sources into the **Database** data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Along with the introduction of the new visual XPath Builder, we have also taken the opportunity to combine the **Database** and **XPath** data sources under the **Database** data source.
```
